Feature/docker (#608)
SFDO-Tooling/MetaCI: RUNNING_DOCKER.RST

To verify you have successfully installed docker type:

::
    
    docker -v

You should see something like the following:

``Docker version 19.03.4, build 9013bf5``

To download and install docker-compose please visit: https://docs.docker.com/v17.09/compose/install/
and follow the installation instructions to download docker-compose if needed.
To verify you have successfully installed docker-compose type:

::

    docker-compose -v

You should see something like the following):

``docker-compose version 1.16.1, build 6d1ac219``

Running MetaCI In Docker:
=========================

To run MetaCI on Docker there are 3 major steps necessary:
----------------------------------------------------------

- `.env File Creation and Variable Declaration`_
.. _.env File Creation and Variable Declaration: https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/MetaCI/blob/feature/docker/CONTRIBUTING.rst#env-file-creation-and-variable-declaration

- `Building Your Docker Containers`_
.. _Building Your Docker Containers: https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/MetaCI/blob/feature/docker/CONTRIBUTING.rst#building-your-docker-containers

- `Running Your Docker Containers`_

> .. _Running Your Docker Containers: https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/MetaCI/blob/feature/docker/CONTRIBUTING.rst#running-your-docker-containers

Reviewer: For links within a reStructuredText, use internal links like this: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#internal-hyperlink-targets

You shouldn't need to include the filename or github URL; the file will not always be on this branch on github.

.env File Creation and Variable Declaration
-------------------------------------------

*Please begin by making a copy of env.example and renaming it .env in your root project directory*

Variables Required Locally

> ---------------------------------

Reviewer: The details about the variables are good. But they are relevant whether using docker or not. I think we should:
1. Move the details about the variables to a separate document.
2. Link to that document from RUNNING_DOCKER.rst, from RUNNING.rst, and from the main readme (they are relevant to people who are just running MetaCI rather than developing it too)

Reviewer: However now that I've read through, I see that there's a lot of specifics about where things are set and what they default to for docker specifically, so maybe that doesn't make sense.

Author: Yeah originally had them in top CONTRIBUTING.rst but moved once I noticed that.

DJANGO_SECRET_KEY: 
    This represents the secret key for the django web application, for local testing, 
    arbritary strings such as the one given in the env.example will suffice. 

>     Otherwise use your production secret key.

Reviewer: It's an arbitrary string for production too. I think it's used to sign session cookies; the important thing is that it's not copied from another Django site.

POSTGRES_USER: 
    Environment variable set in the docker-compose.yml file under the postgres service, 
    represents database user. This value has already been configured for you unless 
    you decide to reconfigure it.

POSTGRES_PASSWORD: 
    Environment variable set in the docker-compose.yml file under the postgres service,
    represents database password.This database is configured with no password for 
    development purposes so leave as is unless changing for production purposes.

POSTGRES_DB:
    Environment variable set in the docker-compose.yml file under the postgres service,
    represents database. This variable has already been set to the proper 
    value `metaci` for the user.

GITHUB_USERNAME:     
    This represents the username of either the tester or service account configured for MetaCI

GITHUB_PASSWORD:      
    This represents the password or personal access token a user must have to access 
    their account a personal access token will be used when Multi Factor Authentication is enabled.

If you need to generate a personal access token please visit the following: 

> https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line

Reviewer: I would preface the github settings with "MetaCI needs a connection to the GitHub API to fetch repositories and create releases. This can be set up using a personal GitHub account by setting GITHUB_USERNAME and GITHUB_PASSWORD, or using a GitHub App by setting GITHUB_APP_ID and GITHUB_APP_KEY." (Or we can leave that 2nd line out; it should be obvious in env.example)

SFDX_CLIENT_ID:       
    This tells sfdx the client id of the connected app to use for connecting to 
    the Dev Hub to create scratch orgs (so it's only needed for running plans that use a scratch org). 
    For SFDO staff it's easiest to use an existing connected app, so its best to ask another team member. 
    External users setting up MetaCI will need to create their own connected app, 
    which they can do in the Dev Hub org. 
    You can adapt these instructions https://cumulusci.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorial.html#creating-manually 
    but there is a difference for MetaCI: because it's connecting to the org non-interactively, 
    the connected app needs to be set up to use the JWT oauth flow. 
    That means when creating the connected app the user needs to check the "Use Digital Signatures" 
    box and upload a certificate. If you are a member of SFDO please visit the following
    quip link https://salesforce.quip.com/sm9bA3R6GwiK, and look under section 5 of SFDX

>     Command Line Tool Setup & Install

Reviewer: Let's leave out the quip link and just say that SFDO staff should ask Release Engineering.

For non-staff, I'd like to spell out the steps in a bit more detail so they don't need to put different pieces together on their own. But we can follow up and do that in a separate pull request.

Author: Ok will remove but just curious why no link? I locked it down so only added users can view.

Reviewer: @jofsky I guess I'm just nervous that someone could change the sharing settings. And I'm also anticipating that the recommended steps for staff will change soon once we set up SSO for the Dev Hub org.

SFDX_HUB_USERNAME: 

>     This represents the username used to login to your sfdx hub account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The username used to login to your Dev Hub org
```

(You can get rid of "This represents" all over the place. It's obvious that it represents something; it's a variable!)

CONNECTED_APP_CLIENT_ID:

>     This represents the client id of the packaging org that MetaCI is running builds on

Reviewer: No, it's the client id of the connected app that MetaCI will use for authenticating to any persistent org. It's fine to use the same connected app that is being used for SFDX_CLIENT_ID and SFDX_HUB_KEY

CONNECTED_APP_CLIENT_SECRET: 

>     This represents the secret of the packaging org configured for MetaCI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The client secret of the connected app used for authenticating to persistent orgs.
```

CONNECTED_APP_CALLBACK_URL:

>     This represents the packaging org's callback url 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The connected app's callback url 
```

To acquire the connected_app variables if you are already properly configured with cci:

::
    

>     cci service info connected_app

Reviewer: This won't work for most people -- CumulusCI comes with a default connected app that does not use a client secret.

Author: should I take this out then?

Author: Im afraid that I as the user don't know how to get these values still, which is a problem from a user standpoint, but maybe I'm just missing something from the SFDX information given.

Reviewer: @jofsky let's talk about this when we talk about MetaDeploy -- you're going to put some time on my calendar for that, right?

You should be able to now record all three variables.

If you have not set up a connected app please visit the following to achieve this.
https://cumulusci.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorial.html#creating-a-connected-app
Once done, confirm with the aformentioned command to ensure you are properly configured 

> with regards to the connected_app variables.

Reviewer: No need to create a second connected app; just use the client id, client secret and callback url of the connected app that was created for SFDX_CLIENT_ID and SFDX_HUB_KEY

Author: Ditto https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/MetaCI/pull/608#discussion_r353986739

Production Variables
--------------------

GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET
    definition here
DJANGO_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
    definition here
DJANGO_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
    definition here
DJANGO_AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME
    definition here
DJANGO_SERVER_EMAIL
    definition here
DJANGO_SENTRY_DSN
    definition here

Other Variables (some preset for user)
--------------------------------------

BUILD_ENV: 
    Environment variable used to determine what dependencies and scripts to run when 
    installing dependencies and populating databases, currently set in docker-compose.yml

>     web service environment variable

Reviewer: This is not an environment variable. It's a docker arg.

NODE_VERSION: 
    Environment variable used to set node version for download, this variable is set in the Dockerfile

YARN_VERSION: 
    Environment variable used to set yarn version for download, this variable is set in the Dockerfile

PYTHONUNBUFFERED: 
    Environment variable set in Dockerfile used to not write .pyc files to Docker container
       
DATABASE_URL:
    Environment variable set in Dockerfile. Represents the full path of database url.

REDIS_URL: 
    This represents the url to the location where the redis server, configured for Meta CI. Set in Dockerfile.

DJANGO_HASHID_SALT: 
    This represents the hashid salt for the django application, currently set to 
    arbritary string due to non production defaults, can be overridden 
    in docker-compose.yml. Currently set in Dockerfile.

DJANGO_SECRET_KEY: 
    This represents the key for the django application, currently set to arbritary
    string due to non production defaults, can be overridden in docker-compose.yml.

>     Currently set in Dockerfile.

Reviewer: You already included this one above.

Building Your Docker Containers:
-------------------------------

This next section assumes you have downloaded ``docker`` and ``docker-compose``.
Additionally it assumes you have a ``.env`` file in the root directory of this 
project, a template of variables needed can be found under ``env.example``.

To configure and run your environment you must run 2 commands in the root directory of MetaCI
Note that docker-compose build will take some significant time to build the first time but will
be much faster for subsequent builds. It is also important to note that once you bring 
up the web application it will take roughly 60 seconds to fully compile. 

::
    
    docker-compose build

Running Your Docker Containers:
-------------------------------
If you would like to populate your instance of MetaCI with test data simply 

> set DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE to config.settings.local in the ``.env`` docker-compose.yml file. 

Reviewer: This shouldn't be necessary; `config.settings.local` is already set as the default in the Dockerfile

Author: Do you like my explanation now? It also is making me consider revising the logic for utility/start_server.sh

Reviewer: @jofsky no it still doesn't make sense to me. Setting DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE to config.settings.local in `.env` won't change anything because it's already set to that value in the Dockerfile.

Author: its set in docker-compose?

Reviewer: @jofsky it's set in Dockerfile: https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/MetaCI/blob/feature/docker/Dockerfile#L32

Then run the following command:
::

    docker-compose up -d 
    or 
    docker-compose up (for debug mode)

After running this command which will take a couple minutes on startup visit ``localhost:8000/admin/login``
 and login with the following credentials:

username
    ``admin``
password
    ``password``

From here you should be able to run builds. However note that this default account will not be created 
when BUILD_ENV is set to production

Docker Commands
---------------

To stop your virtual containers run the following command:
The docker-compose stop command will stop your containers, but it won’t remove them.
::

    docker-compose stop

To start your virtual containers run the following command:
::

    docker-compose start

To bring your virtual containers up for the first time run the following command:
::

    docker-compose up -d

To bring your virtual containers down run the following command:
*The docker-compose down command will stop your containers, 

> xbut also removes the stopped containers as well as any networks that were created.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but also removes the stopped containers as well as any networks that were created.*
```
